# `wxSplitterEvent`
[🔗](https://github.com/erlang/otp/blob/master/lib/wx/src/gen/wxSplitterEvent.erl#L58)

This class represents the events generated by a splitter control.

Also there is only one event class, the data associated to the different events is not
the same and so not all accessor functions may be called for each event. The documentation
mentions the kind of event(s) for which the given accessor function makes sense: calling
it for other types of events will result in assert failure (in debug mode) and will return
meaningless results.

See:
* `m:wxSplitterWindow`

* [Overview events](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/3.2/overview_events.html#overview_events)

This class is derived, and can use functions, from:

* `m:wxNotifyEvent`

* `m:wxCommandEvent`

* `m:wxEvent`

wxWidgets docs: [wxSplitterEvent](https://docs.wxwidgets.org/3.2/classwx_splitter_event.html)

## Events

Use `wxEvtHandler:connect/3` with `wxSplitterEventType` to subscribe to events of this type.

# `wxSplitter`

```erlang
-type wxSplitter() :: #wxSplitter{type :: wxSplitterEvent:wxSplitterEventType()}.
```

# `wxSplitterEvent`

```erlang
-type wxSplitterEvent() :: wx:wx_object().
```

# `wxSplitterEventType`

```erlang
-type wxSplitterEventType() ::
          command_splitter_sash_pos_changed | command_splitter_sash_pos_changing |
          command_splitter_doubleclicked | command_splitter_unsplit.
```

# `getSashPosition`

```erlang
-spec getSashPosition(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSplitterEvent().
```

Returns the new sash position.

May only be called while processing `wxEVT_SPLITTER_SASH_POS_CHANGING` and `wxEVT_SPLITTER_SASH_POS_CHANGED`
events.

# `getWindowBeingRemoved`

```erlang
-spec getWindowBeingRemoved(This) -> wxWindow:wxWindow() when This :: wxSplitterEvent().
```

Returns a pointer to the window being removed when a splitter window is unsplit.

May only be called while processing `wxEVT_SPLITTER_UNSPLIT` events.

# `getX`

```erlang
-spec getX(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSplitterEvent().
```

Returns the x coordinate of the double-click point.

May only be called while processing `wxEVT_SPLITTER_DOUBLECLICKED` events.

# `getY`

```erlang
-spec getY(This) -> integer() when This :: wxSplitterEvent().
```

Returns the y coordinate of the double-click point.

May only be called while processing `wxEVT_SPLITTER_DOUBLECLICKED` events.

# `setSashPosition`

```erlang
-spec setSashPosition(This, Pos) -> ok when This :: wxSplitterEvent(), Pos :: integer().
```

In the case of `wxEVT\_SPLITTER\_SASH\_POS\_CHANGED` events, sets the new sash position.

In the case of `wxEVT_SPLITTER_SASH_POS_CHANGING` events, sets the new tracking bar
position so visual feedback during dragging will represent that change that will actually
take place. Set to -1 from the event handler code to prevent repositioning.

May only be called while processing `wxEVT_SPLITTER_SASH_POS_CHANGING` and `wxEVT_SPLITTER_SASH_POS_CHANGED`
events.

---

*Consult [api-reference.md](api-reference.md) for complete listing*
