---
layout: post
id: 110
title: "Erlang/OTP 19.3 has been released"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 19.3 is the third service release for the 19 release track"
twitter_status: "Erlang/OTP 19.3 has been released"
tags: "release"
date: "2017-03-15"
created_at: "2017-03-15T15:52:12Z"
updated_at: "2017-03-15T15:57:43Z"
author: "Kenneth Lundin"
visible: "true"
article_type_id: "3"
---

Some highlights for 19.3
* **crypto, ssh**: The implementation of the key exchange algorithms diffie-hellman-group-exchange-sha* are optimized, up to a factor of 11 for the slowest ( = biggest and safest) group size.
* **dialyzer**: The peak memory consumption is reduced.
 Analyzing modules with binary construction with huge strings is now much faster.
* **erts**: A received SIGTERM signal to beam will generate a 'stop' message to the init process and terminate the Erlang VM nicely. This is equivalent to calling init:stop/0.
* **kernel**: The functions in the 'file' module that take a list of paths (e.g. file:path_consult/2) will now continue to search in the path if the path contains something that is not a directory.
 Two OTP processes that are known to receive many messages are 'rex' (used by 'rpc') and 'error_logger'. Those processes will now store unprocessed messages outside the process heap, this will improve their capability to handle large message queues.
* **public_key:** New function pkix_verify_hostname/2,3 Implements certificate hostname checking. See the manual and RFC 6125.
* **public_key, ssh**: The ssh host key fingerprint generation now also takes a list of algorithms and returns a list of corresponding fingerprints. See public_key:ssh_hostkey_fingerprint/2 and the option silently_accept_hosts in ssh:connect.
* **ssl**: Move PEM cache to a dedicated process, to avoid making the SSL manager process a bottleneck. This improves scalability of TLS connections.
* **stdlib**: filename:safe_relative_path/1 to sanitize a relative path has been added.
* Thanks to more than 20 different contributors

You can find the README and the full listing of changes for this service release at
<https://www.erlang.org/download/otp_src_19.3.readme>
 The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository,
<https://github.com/erlang/otp> with tag OTP-19.3

Please report any new issues via Erlang/OTPs public issue tracker

<https://bugs.erlang.org>

 We want to thank all of those who sent us patches, suggestions and bug reports!

Thank you!

The Erlang/OTP Team at Ericsson
