---
id: 111
layout: newsitem
title: "Reporting a Security Issue in Erlang/OTP"
lead: "Use erlang-security [at] erlang [dot] org to report a security issue"
tags: "Erlang, OTP, security, report, bug"
article_date: "2017-03-21T00:00:00Z"
created_at: "2017-03-21T13:12:29Z"
updated_at: "2017-03-21T13:13:53Z"
admin_user_id: 5
visible: "true"
article_type_id: 3
---

Reporting a Security Issue in Erlang/OTP

Please follow this document in order to report the issues regarding security in Erlang/OTP. Please do not create a public issue for a security issue.
## When should you report a security issue?

The risk level is often determined by a product of the impact once exploited, and the probability of exploitation occurring. In other words, if a bug can cause great damage, but it takes highest privilege to exploit the bug, then the bug is not a high risk one. Similarly, if the bug is easily exploitable, but its impact is limited, then it is not a high risk issue either.

 

There is not any hard and fast rule to determine if a bug is worth reporting as a security issue to **erlang-security [at] erlang [dot] org**. A general rule is that an attack by someone that has no access to the Erlang application or its system can affect the confidentiality, integrity and availability.

 
## What happens after the report?

All security bugs in the Erlang/OTP distribution should be reported to **erlang-security [at] erlang [dot] org**. Your report will be handled by a small security team at the OTP team. Your email will be acknowledged as soon as we start handling the issue. 

 

Please use a descriptive email title for your report. After the initial response to your report, the security team will keep you updated on the progress and decision being made towards a fix and release announcement. 

 
## Flagging Existing Issues as Security-related

If you believe that an existing public issue on [bugs.erlang.org](http://bugs.erlang.org/) is security-related, we ask that you send an email to **erlang-security [at] erlang [dot] org**. The email title should contain the issue ID on [bugs.erlang.org](http://bugs.erlang.org/) (e.g. Flagging security issue ERL-001). Please include a short description to motivate why it should be handled according to the security policy.
