---
layout: post
id: 116
title: "Erlang/OTP 20.2 is released"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 20.2 is a service release containing mostly bug fixes and characteristics improvements but also a few features."
date: "2017-12-13"
created_at: "2017-12-13T09:38:55Z"
updated_at: "2017-12-13T09:42:39Z"
author: "Henrik Nord"
visible: "true"
article_type_id: "3"
---

Erlang/OTP 20.2 is the second service release for the 20 major release.

The service release contains mostly bug fixes and characteristics

improvements but also some new features.

Some highlights for 20.2
* crypto, ssl

               The crypto API is extended to use private/public keys

               stored in an Engine for sign/verify or encrypt/decrypt

               operations.

               The ssl application provides an API to use this new

               engine concept in TLS.

* ssh

               SSH can now fetch the host key from the private keys

               stored in an Engine. See the crypto application for

               details about Engines.

*  ssl

               A new command line option -ssl_dist_optfile has been

               added to facilitate specifying the many options needed

               when using SSL as the distribution protocol.
* stdlib

               Improve performance of the new string functionality

               when handling ASCII characters.

You can find the README and the full listing of changes for this

service release at

</download/otp_src_20.2.readme>

The source distribution and binary distributions for Windows can be

downloaded from

</download/otp_src_20.2.tar.gz>

</download/otp_win32_20.2.exe>

</download/otp_win64_20.2.exe>

Note: To unpack the TAR archive you need a GNU TAR compatible program.

For installation instructions please consult the README file that is

part

of the distribution.

The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official

Erlang

repository, <https://github.com/erlang/otp> with tag OTP-20.2

The on-line documentation can be found at: [/doc/](/doc/)

You can also download the complete HTML documentation or the Unix

manual files

</download/otp_doc_html_20.2.tar.gz>

</download/otp_doc_man_20.2.tar.gz>

Please report any new issues via Erlang/OTPs public issue tracker

<https://bugs.erlang.org>

We want to thank all of those who sent us patches, suggestions and bug

reports!

Thank you!

The Erlang/OTP Team at Ericsson
