---
id: 138
layout: newsitem
title: "Erlang OTP 23.0 Release Candidate 2"
lead: "Second release candidate is now available for testing!"
tags: "release, candidate, testing"
article_date: "2020-03-26T00:00:00Z"
created_at: "2020-03-26T06:52:54Z"
updated_at: "2020-03-26T06:52:54Z"
admin_user_id: 11
visible: "true"
article_type_id: 3
---
This is the second of three planned release candidates before the OTP 23 release. The intention with this release is to get feedback from our users. All feedback is welcome, even if it is only to say that it works for you.

Erlang/OTP 23 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as a few incompatibilities.
### Potential Incompatibilities
* SSL: * Support for SSL 3.0 is completely removed.
* TLS 1.3 is added to the list of default supported versions.
* `erl_interface`: Removed the deprecated parts ofÂ `erl_interface`
 (`erl_interface.h`Â and essentially all C functions with prefixÂ `erl_`).
* The deprecatedÂ `erlang:get_stacktrace/0`Â BIF now returns an empty list instead of a stacktrace.
 `erlang:get_stacktrace/0`Â is scheduled for removal in OTP 24.
* ...
### Highlights (rc2)
* ssh: * OpenSSH 6.5 introduced a new file representation of
 keys called `openssh-key-v1`. This is now supported with the exception of
 handling encrypted keys.
* Algorithm configuration could now be done in a .config file.
 This is useful for example to enable an algorithm that
 is disabled by default without need to change the code.
* ssl: * Support for the middlebox compatibility mode makes the TLS 1.3 handshake
 look more like a TLS 1.2 handshake and increases the chance of successfully
 establishing TLS 1.3 connections through legacy middleboxes.
* Add support for key exchange with Edward curves and PSS-RSA padding in
 signature verification
* The possibility to run Erlang distribution without
 relying on EPMD has been extended. To achieve this a
 couple of new options to the inet distribution has been
 added. * `-dist_listen false`Â Setup the distribution
 channel, but do not listen for incoming connection.
* `-erl_epmd_port Port`Â Configure a default port that
 the built-in EPMD client should return.
* ...
* A first EXPERIMENTALÂ `socket`Â backend to
 `gen_tcp`Â andÂ `inet`Â has been implemented.Â `gen_udp`Â andÂ `gen_sctp`Â will follow.
 PuttingÂ `{inet_backend, socket}`Â as first option toÂ `listen()`Â orÂ `connect()`Â makes it easy to try this for
 existing code
### Highlights (rc1)
* A new moduleÂ `erpc`Â in kernel which implements an enhanced subset of the operations provided by theÂ `rpc`Â module. Enhanced in the sense that it makes it possible to distinguish between returned value, raised exceptions and other errors.Â `erpc`Â also has better performance and scalability than the originalÂ `rpc`Â implementation. This by utilizing the newly introducedÂ `spawn_request()`Â BIF. Also theÂ `rpc`Â module benefits from these improvements by utilizingÂ `erpc`Â when possible.
* Scalability and performance Improvements plus new functionality regarding distributed spawn operations.
* In binary matching, the size of the segment to be matched is now allowed to be a guard expression (EEP-52)
* When matching with maps the keys can now be guard expressions (EEP-52).
* ssh: support for TCP/IP port forwarding, a.k.a tunneling a.k.a as tcp-forward/direct-tcp is implemented. In the OpenSSH client, this corresponds to the options -L and -R.
* Allow underscores in numeric literals to improve readability. Examples:Â `123_456_789`,Â `16#1234_ABCD`.
* New functions in the shell for displaying documentation for Erlang modules, functions and types. The
 functions are: * `h/1,2,3`Â -- Print the documentation for a `Module:Function/Arity`.
* `ht/1,2,3`Â -- Print the type documentation for a `Module:Type/Arity`.
 The embedded documentation is created as docchunks (EEP 48) when building the Erlang/OTP documentation.
* kernel: The moduleÂ `pg`Â with a new implementation of distributed named process groups is introduced. The old moduleÂ `pg2`Â is deprecated and scheduled for removal in OTP 24.
* Our tool chain for building the Windows packages is upgraded with new C++ compiler, Java compiler, OpenSSL libraries and wxWidgets versions. We are now using WSL (the Linux Subsystem for Windows when building) which makes it easier to handle the build environment.
* ...

For more details see
 [http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_23.0-rc2.readme](http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_23.0-rc2.readme)

Pre built versions for Windows can be fetched here:
 [http://erlang.org/download/otp_win32_23.0-rc2.exe](http://erlang.org/download/otp_win32_23.0-rc2.exe)
 [http://erlang.org/download/otp_win64_23.0-rc2.exe](http://erlang.org/download/otp_win64_23.0-rc2.exe)

Online documentation can be browsed here:
 [http://erlang.org/documentation/doc-11.0-rc2/doc](http://erlang.org/documentation/doc-11.0-rc2/doc)
 The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository,
 [https://github.com/erlang/otp](https://github.com/erlang/otp)
