---
layout: post
id: 148
title: "OTP 24.0 Release"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 24 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as a few incompatibilities."
tags: "release, OTP, 24"
date: "2021-05-12"
created_at: "2021-05-12T11:00:34Z"
updated_at: "2021-05-12T11:00:34Z"
author: "Henrik Nord"
visible: "true"
article_type_id: "3"
---

# OTP 24

Erlang/OTP 24 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as a few incompatibilities.

Below are some of the highlights of the release:

## Highlights

### compiler
* The compiler will now inline funs that are used only once immediately after their definition.
* Compiler warnings and errors now include column numbers in addition to line numbers.
* Variables bound between the keywords `'try'` and `'of'` can now be used in the clauses following the `'of'` keyword
 (that is, in the success case when no exception was raised).
* Generators in list and binary comprehensions will now
 raise a `{bad_generator,Generator}` exception if the
 generator has an incorrect type
 Similarly, when a
 filter does not evaluate to a boolean, a
`{bad_filter,Filter}` exception will be raised.
* Warnings for expressions whose result was ignored that could be suppressed by
 using the anonymous variable `'_'` can now be suppressed with a variable beginning with `'_'`.
* Selective receive optimization will now be applied much
 more often.
 The new `recv_opt_info` compile flag can be used to print
 diagnostics relating to this optimization.
 You can read more about the selective receive
 optimization in the Efficiency Guide.

### erts, kernel, stdlib
* hex encoding and decoding functions added in the binary module
* The BeamAsm JIT-compiler has been added to Erlang/OTP and will give a significant performance boost for many applications.
 The JIT-compiler is enabled by default on most x86 64-bit platforms that have a C++ compiler that can compile C++17.
 To verify that a JIT enabled emulator is running you can use `erlang:system_info(emu_flavor)`.
* A compatibility adaptor for `gen_tcp` to use the new socket API has been implemented (`gen_tcp_socket`).
* Extended error information for failing BIF calls as proposed in EEP 54 has been implemented.
* Process aliases as outlined by EEP 53 has been introduced.
* Implementation of EEP 56 in supervisor. It adds the concept of significant children as well as the `auto_shutdown` supervisor flag. See the supervisor manual page for more information.

### ftp
* Add support for FTPES (explicit FTP over TLS).

### ssl
* Make TLS handshakes in Erlang distribution concurrent.
* TLS connections now support EdDSA certificates.

### wx
* The application has been completely rewritten in order
 to use wxWidgets version 3 as its base.
* Added support for wxWebView.

### edoc
* EDoc is now capable of emitting EEP-48 doc chunks. This means that, with some
 configuration, community projects can now provide documentation for shell_docs
 the same way that OTP libraries did since OTP 23.0.

For more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see
* <https://erlang.org/download/OTP-24.0.README>

Pre built versions for Windows can be fetched here:
<https://erlang.org/download/otp_win32_24.0.exe>
<https://erlang.org/download/otp_win64_24.0.exe>

Online documentation can be browsed here:
* <https://erlang.org/documentation/doc-12.0/doc>

The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository,
<https://github.com/erlang/otp>

Many thanks to all the contributors.
