---
layout: post
id: 152
title: "OTP 24.2 Release"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 24.2 is the first maintenance patch release for OTP 24, with mostly bug fixes as well as a few improvements."
tags: "release, OTP, 24.2"
date: "2021-12-15"
author: "Kenneth Lundin"
visible: "true"
article_type_id: "3"
---
# OTP 24.2 

Erlang/OTP 24.2 is the second maintenance patch release for OTP 24, with mostly
bug fixes as well as a few improvements.

Below are some highlights of the release:

## Highlights

- **crypto**: The `crypto` app in OTP can now be compiled, linked and
               used with the new `OpenSSL 3.0` cryptolib. It has not yet been extensively tested, 
               so only recommended for experiments and alpha testing in this release. 
               There are not yet any guaranties that it works, not even together with other
               OTP applications like for example SSL and SSH, although
               there are no known errors.
- **erts**: An option for enabling dirty scheduler specific
               allocator instances has been introduced. By default
               such allocator instances are disabled. For more
               information see the documentation of the `+Mdai` argument
               to the `erl`command

- **erl_docgen, erts**: All predefined types have been added to the `erlang`
              module together with documentation.
              Any reference to a predefined type now links to that
              documentation so that the user can view it.

- **erts**: Responsiveness of processes executing on normal or low
               priority could suffer due to code purging or literal
               area removal on systems with a huge amount of
               processes. This since during these operations all
               processes on the system were scheduled for execution at
               once. The new solution is to limit the number of outstanding 
               purge and copy requests to 2 times the number of schedulers as default


[For more details and downloads follow this link](/patches/OTP-24.2)

The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository,
[https://github.com/erlang/otp](https://github.com/erlang/otp)

