---
layout: post
id: 153
title: "OTP 25 Release candidate 1"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 25 rc1 is the first release candidate of three before the OTP 25.0 release."
tags: "release, OTP, 25-rc1"
date: "2022-02-16"
author: "Kenneth Lundin"
visible: "true"
article_type_id: "3"
---
# OTP 25-rc1 

Erlang/OTP 25-rc1 is the first release candidate of three before the OTP 25.0 release. 

The intention with this release is to get feedback from our users. All feedback is welcome, even if it is only to say that it works for you.
We encourage users to try it out and give us feedback either by creating an issue here https://github.com/erlang/otp/issues or by posting to [Erlangforums](https://erlangforums.com) or the mailing list erlang-questions@erlang.org.

Erlang/OTP 25 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as a few incompatibilities. Some of the new features are highlighted below.

Below are some highlights of the release:

## Highlights

### erts & jit
- The JIT now works for 64-bit ARM processors.
- The JIT now does type-based optimizations based on type
  information in the BEAM files.
- Improved the JIT's support for external tools like `perf`
  and `gdb`, allowing them to show line numbers and even
  the original Erlang source code when that can be found.

### erts, stdlib, kernel
- Users can now configure ETS tables with the
  `{write_concurrency, auto}` option. This option forces
  tables to automatically change the number of locks that
  are used at run-time depending on how much concurrency
  is detected. The `{decentralized_counters, true}` option
  is enabled by default when `{write_concurrency, auto}` is
  active.

  Benchmark results comparing this option with the other
  ETS optimization options are available here:
  [benchmarks](http://winsh.me/bench/ets_config_locks/ets_bench_result_lock_config.html).

- To enable more optimizations, BEAM files compiled with
  OTP 21 and earlier cannot be loaded in OTP 25.

- The signal queue of a process with
  the process flag `message_queue_data=off_heap` has been optimized to
  allow parallel reception of signals from multiple processes.
  This can improve performance when many processes are sending in parallel to
  one process. [See benchmark](http://winsh.me/bench/erlang_sig_q/sigq_bench_result.html).

- The Erlang installation directory is now relocatable on
  the file system given that the paths in the
  installation's RELEASES file are paths that are
  relative to the installations root directory. 
- A new option called `short` has been added to the
  functions `erlang:float_to_list` and
  `erlang:float_to_binary/`. This option creates the
  shortest correctly rounded string representation of the
  given float that can be converted back to the same
  float again.
- Introduction of `quote/1` and `unquote/1` functions in
  the `uri_string` module - a replacement for the deprecated functions `http_uri:encode`
  and `http_uri:decode`.
- The new module `peer` supersedes the `slave` module. The
  `slave` module is now deprecated and will be removed in OTP 27.

- `global` will now by default prevent
  overlapping partitions due to network issues. This is done by
  actively disconnecting from nodes that reports that
  they have lost connections to other nodes. This will
  cause fully connected partitions to form instead of
  leaving the network in a state with overlapping
  partitions.

  It is possible to turn off the new behavior by setting the
  the `kernel` configuration parameter `prevent_overlapping_partitions` to `false`.
  Doing this will retain the same behavior as in OTP 24 and earlier.

- The `format_status/2` callback for `gen_server`, `gen_statem`
               and `gen_event` has been deprecated in favor of the new
               `format_status/1` callback.

  The new callback adds the possibility to limit and
  change many more things than the just the state.

- The `timer` module has been modernized and made more
  efficient, which makes the timer server less
  susceptible to being overloaded. The `timer:sleep/1`
  function now accepts an arbitrarily large integer.


### Compiler
- The `maybe ... end` construction as proposed in [`EEP-49`](https://www.erlang.org/eeps/eep-0049)
  has been implemented. It can simplify complex code
  where otherwise deeply nested cases would have to be
  used.

  To enable `maybe`, give the option `{enable,maybe_expr}` to
  the compiler. The exact option to use will change in a coming release candidate and then it will also be possible to
  use from inside the module being compiled.

- When a record matching or record update fails, a
  `{badrecord, ExpectedRecordTag}` exception used to be
  raised. In this release, the exception has been changed
  to `{badrecord, ActualValue}`, where `ActualValue` is the
  value that was found instead of the expected record.

- Add compile attribute `-nifs()` to empower compiler and loader with
  information about which functions may be overridden as NIFs by `erlang:load_nif/2`.

- Improved and more detailed error messages when binary construction with the
  binary syntax fails.
  This applies both for error messages in the shell and for
  `erl_error:format_exception/3,4`.

### Crypto
- Add `crypto:hash_equals/2` which is a constant time comparision of hashvalues.

### Dialyzer
- Optimize operations in the `erl_types` module. Parallelize the Dialyzer pass remote.
- Added the `missing_return` and `extra_return` options to
  raise warnings when specifications differ from inferred
  types. These are similar to, but not quite as verbose
  as overspecs and underspecs.
- Dialyzer now better understands the types for min/2,
  `max/2`, and `erlang:raise/3`. Because of that, Dialyzer
  can potentially generate new warnings. In particular,
  functions that use `erlang:raise/3` could now need a spec
  with a `no_return()` return type to avoid an unwanted
  warning.
  
### Misc
- A new [DEVELOPMENT HOWTO guide](https://github.com/erlang/otp/blob/master/HOWTO/DEVELOPMENT.md) has been added that
  describes how to build and test Erlang/OTP when fixing
  bugs or developing new functionality.
  
- Testing has been
  added to the Github actions run for each opened PR so
  that more bugs are caught earlier when bug fixes and
  new features are proposed.


For more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see
- https://erlang.org/download/OTP-25.0.README
