---
layout: post
id: 154
title: "Erlang OTP 24.3 is released"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 24.3 is the third and final maintenance patch package for OTP 23, with mostly bug fixes as well as a few improvements."
twitter_status: "Latest and greatest Erlang/OTP 24"
tags: "release"
date: "2022-03-10"
created_at: "2022-03-10T12:52:29Z"
updated_at: "2022-03-10T14:23:24Z"
author: "Henrik Nord"
visible: "true"
article_type_id: "3"
---

# OTP 24.3

Erlang/OTP 24.3 is the third and final maintenance patch package for OTP 23, with mostly bug fixes as well as a few improvements.

Below are some highlights of the release:

## Highlights

- **crypto**: The `crypto` app in OTP can now be compiled, linked and
               used with the new `OpenSSL 3.0` cryptolib. It has not yet been extensively tested, 
               so only recommended for experiments and alpha testing in this release. 
               There are not yet any guaranties that it works, not even together with other
               OTP applications like for example SSL and SSH, although
               there are no known errors.
- **erts, kernel**: Support for using `socket:sockaddr_in()` and
               `socket:sockaddr_in6()` when using `gen_sctp`, `gen_tcp` and
               `gen_udp`, will make it possible to use Link Local
               IPv6 addresses.
- **erts, kernel**: By default global does not take any actions to restore
               a fully connected network when connections are lost due
               to network issues. This is problematic for all
               applications expecting a fully connected network to be
               provided, such as for example mnesia, but also for
               global itself. A network of overlapping partitions
               might cause the internal state of global to become
               inconsistent. Such an inconsistency can remain even
               after such partitions have been brought together to
               form a fully connected network again. The effect on
               other applications that expects that a fully connected
               network is maintained may vary, but they might
               misbehave in very subtle hard to detect ways during
               such a partitioning. In order to prevent such issues, we have introduced a
               prevent overlapping partitions fix which can be enabled
               using the prevent_overlapping_partitions kernel(6)
               parameter. As of OTP 25 this fix will become enabled by default



[For more details and downloads follow this link](/patches/OTP-24.3)

The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository,
<https://github.com/erlang/otp>
