---
layout: post
id: 164
title: "Erlang/OTP 27.0 Release"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 27 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as a few incompatibilities."
tags: "release, OTP, 27.0"
date: "2024-05-15"
author: "Björn Gustavsson"
---
Erlang/OTP 27 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as
a few incompatibilities.

For details about new features, bugfixes and potential incompatibilities see
the [Erlang 27.0 README](https://erlang.org/download/otp_src_27.0.readme) or
the Erlang/OTP 27.0 downloads page.

Many thanks to all contributors!

Below are some of the highlights of the release:

## Documentation

[EEP-59](https://www.erlang.org/eeps/eep-0059) has been
implemented. Documentation attributes in source files can now be used
to document functions, types, callbacks, and modules.

The entire Erlang/OTP documentation is now using the new documentation
system.

## Building Erlang/OTP

* `configure` now automatically enables support for year-2038-safe timestamps.

  By default `configure` scripts used when building OTP will now try
  to enable support for timestamps that will work after mid-January
  2038\. This has typically only been an issue on 32-bit platforms.

  If `configure` cannot figure out how to enable such timestamps, it
  will abort with an error message. If you want to build the system
  anyway, knowing that the system will not function properly after
  mid-January 2038, you can pass the `--disable-year2038` option to
  `configure`, which will enable `configure` to continue without
  support for timestamps after mid-January 2038.

## New language features

* Triple-Quoted Strings has been implemented as per
  [EEP 64](https://www.erlang.org/eeps/eep-0064) to allow a string
  to encompass a complete paragraph.

* Adjacent string literals without intervening white space is now a syntax
  error, to avoid possible confusion with triple-quoted strings.

* Sigils on string literals (both ordinary and triple-quoted) have
  been implemented as per
  [EEP  66](https://www.erlang.org/eeps/eep-0066). For example,
  `~"Björn"` or `~b"Björn"` are now equivalent to `<<"Björn"/utf8>>`.


## Compiler and JIT improvements

* The compiler will now merge consecutive updates of the same record.

* Safe destructive update of tuples has been implemented in the compiler
  and runtime system. This allows the VM to update tuples in-place when it
  is safe to do so, thus improving performance by doing less copying but
  also by producing less garbage.

* The `maybe` expression is now enabled by default, eliminating the need
  for enabling the `maybe_expr` feature.

* Native coverage support has been implemented in the JIT. It will
  automatically be used by the `cover` tool to reduce the execution
  overhead when running cover-compiled code. There are also new APIs
  to support native coverage without using the `cover` tool.

* The compiler will now raise a warning when updating record/map literals
  to catch a common mistake. For example, the compiler will now emit a
  warning for `#r{a=1}#r{b=2}`.


## ERTS

* The `erl` command now supports the `-S` flag, which is similar to
  the `-run` flag, but with some of the rough edges filed off.

* By default, escripts will now be compiled instead of interpreted. That
  means that the `compiler` application must be installed.

* The default process limit has been raised to `1048576` processes.

* The `erlang:system_monitor/2` functionality is now able to monitor long
  message queues in the system.

* The obsolete and undocumented support for opening a port to an external
  resource by passing an atom (or a string) as first argument to
  `open_port()`, implemented by the vanilla driver,
  has been removed. This feature has been scheduled for removal in OTP 27
  since the release of OTP 26.

* The `pid` field has been removed from `erlang:fun_info/1,2`.

* Multiple trace sessions are now supported.

## STDLIB

* There is a new module json for
  encoding and decoding [JSON](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON).

  Both encoding and decoding can be customized. Decoding can be done in a
  SAX-like fashion and handle multiple documents and streams of data.

  The new `json` module is used by the `jer` (JSON Encoding Rules) for ASN.1
  for encoding and decoding JSON. Thus, there is no longer any need to supply
  an external JSON library.

* Several new functions that accept funs have been added to module `timer`.

* The functions `is_equal/2`, `map/2`, and `filtermap/2` have been added to
  the modules `sets`, `ordsets`, and `gb_sets`.

* There are new efficient `ets` traversal functions with guaranteed atomicity.
  For example, `ets:next/2` followed by `ets:lookup/2` can now be replaced
  with `ets:next_lookup/1`.

* The new function `ets:update_element/4` is similar to `ets:update_element/3`,
  but takes a default tuple as the fourth argument, which will be inserted
  if no previous record with that key exists.

* `binary:replace/3,4` now supports using a fun for supplying the
  replacement binary.

* The new function `proc_lib:set_label/1` can be used to add a descriptive
  term to any process that does not have a registered name. The name will
  be shown by tools such as `c:i/0` and `observer`, and it will be included
  in crash reports produced by processes using `gen_server`, `gen_statem`,
  `gen_event`, and `gen_fsm`.

* Added functions to retrieve the next higher or lower key/element from
  `gb_trees` and `gb_sets`, as well as returning iterators that start at
  given keys/elements.

## common_test

* Calls to `ct:capture_start/0` and `ct:capture_stop/0` are now synchronous to
  ensure that all output is captured.

* The default CSS will now include a basic dark mode handling if it is
  preferred by the browser.

## crypto

* The functions `crypto_dyn_iv_init/3` and `crypto_dyn_iv_update/3`
  that were marked as deprecated in Erlang/OTP 25 have been removed.

## dialyzer

* The `--gui` option for Dialyzer has been removed.

## ssl

* The `ssl` client can negotiate and handle certificate status request (OCSP
  stapling support on the client side).

## tools

* There is a new tool `tprof`, which combines the functionality of `eprof`
  and `cprof` under one interface. It also adds heap profiling.

## xmerl

* As an alternative to `xmerl_xml`, a new export module `xmerl_xml_indent`
  that provides out-of-the box indented output has been added.


For more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see the [README](https://erlang.org/download/otp_src_27.0.readme).
