---
layout: post
id: 177
title: "Erlang/OTP 29.0 Release Candidate 2"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 29.0-rc2 is the second release candidate for OTP 29"
tags: "release, OTP, 29.0-rc2, Release Candidate"
date: "2026-03-18"
author: "Björn Gustavsson"
---
## OTP 29.0-rc2

Erlang/OTP 29.0-rc2 is the second release candidate of three before the OTP 29.0 release.

The intention with this release is to get feedback from our users.
All feedback is welcome, even if it is only to say that it works for you.
We encourage users to try it out and give us feedback either by creating an issue at
[https://github.com/erlang/otp/issues](https://github.com/erlang/otp/issues) or by
posting to [Erlang Forums](https://erlangforums.com/).

All artifacts for the release can be downloaded from the
[Erlang/OTP Github](https://github.com/erlang/otp/releases/tag/OTP-29.0-rc2) release
and you can view the new documentation at
[https://erlang.org/documentation/doc-16-rc2/doc](https://erlang.org/documentation/doc-16-rc2/doc/).
You can also install the latest release using [kerl](https://github.com/kerl/kerl) like this:

```
kerl build 29.0-rc2 29.0-rc2.
```

Erlang/OTP 29 is a new major release with new features, improvements
as well as a few incompatibilities. Some of the new features are
highlighted below.

Many thanks to all contributors!

# Highlights for RC2

* The module `io_ansi` allows the user to emit Virtual Terminal
  Sequences (also known as ANSI sequences) to the terminal in order to
  add colors/styling to text or to create fully fledged terminal
  applications.
  
* The new `ct_doctest` module allows the user to test
  documentation examples in Erlang module docs and documentation files.
  
* The `ignore_xref` attribute has been handled as a post-analysis
  filter by build tools such as Rebar3. In this release, [`xref`]
  itself does the filtering, ensuring that all tooling that calls
  `xref` for any purpose can rely on these declarations to just work.

# Highlights for RC1

## General

* In the default code path for the Erlang system, the current working
  directory (`.`) is now in the last position instead of the first.

* There is no longer a 32-bit Erlang/OTP build for Windows.

## New language features

* Native records as described in
  [EEP-79](https://github.com/erlang/eep/pull/81) has been
  implemented. A native record is a data structure similar to the
  traditional tuple-based records, except that is a true data type.
  Native records are considered experimental in Erlang/OTP 29 and
  possibly also in Erlang/OTP 30.

* The new `is_integer/3` guard BIF makes it possible to easily verify
  that a value is both an integer and within a certain range. For
  example: `is_integer(I, 0, 100)`

* Multi-valued comprehensions according to [EEP 78](https://www.erlang.org/eeps/eep-0078)
  are now supported. For example, `[-I, I || I <- [1, 2, 3]]` will produce
  `[-1,1,-2,2,-3,3]`.

* By enabling the `compr_assign` feature, it is now possible to bind variables
  in a comprehensions. For example:
  `[H || E <- List, H = erlang:phash2(E), H rem 10 =:= 0]`

## Compiler and JIT improvements

* In the documentation for the [`compile`] module, there is now a section
  with recommendations for implementors of languages running on
  the BEAM.

* The JIT now generates better code for matching or creating binaries with
  multiple little-endian segments.

* The compiler will generate more efficient code for map
  comprehensions with constant values that don't depend on the
  generator. Example: `#{K => 42 || K <- List}`

## Compiler warnings

There are several new compiler warnings enabled by default. For each
such warning, there is an option to disable it.

* There will now be a warning when using the `catch` operator, which
  has been deprecated for a long time.  It is recommended to instead
  use `try`...`catch` but is also possible to disable the warning
  by using the `nowarn_deprecated_catch` option.

* There will now be a warning when exporting variables out of a
  subexpression.  For example: `file:open(File, AllOpts = [write,
  {encoding,utf8}])`. This warning can be disabled using the
  `nowarn_export_var_subexpr` compiler option.

* The compiler will now warn for uses of the `and` and `or`
  operators. This warning can be disabled using the
  `nowarn_obsolete_bool_op` compiler option.

* The compiler will now warn for matches such as `{a,B} = {X,Y}`,
  which is better written as `{a=X,B=Y}`. This warning can be disabled
  using the `nowarn_match_alias_pats` option.

For a long time, there has been a warning for using the obsolete guard
tests (such as `list(L)` instead of `is_list(L)`. In Erlang/OTP 30, the
old guards will be removed from the language.

## STDLIB

* There are new functions for randomly permutating a list: `rand:shuffle/1` and
  `rand:shuffle_s/2`.

## SSH

* The default key exchange algorithm is now mlkem768x25519-sha256, a hybrid
  quantum-resistant algorithm combining ML-KEM-768 with X25519. This provides
  protection against both classical and quantum computer attacks while
  maintaining backward compatibility through automatic fallback to other
  algorithms when peers don't support it.

For more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see the [README](https://erlang.org/download/otp_src_29.0-rc2.readme).
