---
layout: post
id: 187
title: "Erlang/OTP 28.5 Release"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 28.5 is the fourth maintenance patch package for OTP 28, with mostly bug fixes."
tags: "release, OTP, 28.5"
date: "2026-04-23"
author: "Henrik Nord"
---
## OTP 28.5

Erlang/OTP 28.5 is the fourth maintenance patch package for OTP 28, with mostly bug fixes as well as a few improvements.

# HIGHLIGHTS
There is a new “Secure Coding Guidelines” document in Design Principles describing how to write secure Erlang code.


## Improvements and New Features

- A new `configure` option `--{enable,disable}-use-embedded-3pp-alternatives` has been added. When _enabled_, `configure` is forced to find alternatives,
 to a subset, of the embedded third-party products (_3pps_) in the runtime system, and when _disabled_, `configure` will use all internal embedded 3pps.
  Currently this option affects `zstd`, `zlib`, `ryu` (with `STL`), `openssl` and `tcl`. The default is to use all built-in embedded 3pps except for `zlib`
  which by default will use `zlib` on the OS if available.

  Requirements for alternatives:

  - `zstd` - Static library and include files of at least version 1.5.6 needs to be available.
  - `zlib` - Library and include files of at least version 1.2.5 needs to be available.
  - `ryu` (with `STL`) - A usable C++ compiler with C++17 support.
  - `openssl` - No requirements. Our own MD5 implementation will be used.
  - `tcl` - The `strerrorname_np()` function (introduced in glibc 2.32) mapping errno integers to symbolic names needs to be available.

  The argument `embedded_3pps` has been added to erlang:system_info/1. It returns a map with information about the use of embedded 3pps in the runtime
  system.

For details about bugfixes and potential incompatibilities see the [Erlang 28.5 README](https://erlang.org/download/OTP-28.5.README)

The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository, https://github.com/erlang/otp


Download links for this and previous versions are found here:

- [https://www.erlang.org/downloads](/downloads)
