---
layout: post
id: 188
title: "Erlang/OTP 29.0"
lead: "Erlang/OTP 29.0"
tags: "release, OTP, 29.0, Release"
date: "2026-05-13"
author: "Henrik Nord"
---
## OTP 29.0

Erlang/OTP 29 is a new major release with new features, improvements
as well as a few incompatibilities. Some of the new features are
highlighted below.

Many thanks to all contributors!

# Highlights

* Added support for `-unsafe` attributes for marking
  functions as unsafe to use. The compiler will by default now
  generate warnings for calls to functions in Erlang/OTP known to be
  always unsafe. Furthermore, `xref` can now be used to find calls to
  unsafe functions and functions that lack documentation.

* The SSH daemon now defaults to disabled for shell and exec services,
  implementing the "secure by default" principle. This prevents
  authenticated users from executing arbitrary Erlang code unless
  explicitly configured.

* The SFTP subsystem is no longer enabled by default when starting an
  SSH daemon.

* In SSL, the post quantum hybrid algorithm x25519mlkem768 is now the
  most preferred key exchange group in the default configuration.

* The module `io_ansi` allows the user to emit Virtual Terminal
  Sequences (also known as ANSI sequences) to the terminal in order to
  add colors/styling to text or to create fully fledged terminal
  applications.
  
* The new `ct_doctest` module allows the user to test
  documentation examples in Erlang module docs and documentation files.
  
* The `ignore_xref` attribute has been handled as a post-analysis
  filter by build tools such as Rebar3. In this release, [`xref`]
  itself does the filtering, ensuring that all tooling that calls
  `xref` for any purpose can rely on these declarations to just work.

## General

* In the default code path for the Erlang system, the current working
  directory (`.`) is now in the last position instead of the first.

* There is no longer a 32-bit Erlang/OTP build for Windows.

## New language features

* Native records as described in
  [EEP-79](https://github.com/erlang/eep/pull/81) has been
  implemented. A native record is a data structure similar to the
  traditional tuple-based records, except that is a true data type.
  Native records are considered experimental in Erlang/OTP 29 and
  possibly also in Erlang/OTP 30.

* The new `is_integer/3` guard BIF makes it possible to easily verify
  that a value is both an integer and within a certain range. For
  example: `is_integer(I, 0, 100)`

* Multi-valued comprehensions according to [EEP 78](https://www.erlang.org/eeps/eep-0078)
  are now supported. For example, `[-I, I || I <- [1, 2, 3]]` will produce
  `[-1,1,-2,2,-3,3]`.

* By enabling the `compr_assign` feature, it is now possible to bind variables
  in a comprehensions. For example:
  `[H || E <- List, H = erlang:phash2(E), H rem 10 =:= 0]`

## Compiler and JIT improvements

* In the documentation for the [`compile`] module, there is now a section
  with recommendations for implementors of languages running on
  the BEAM.

* The JIT now generates better code for matching or creating binaries with
  multiple little-endian segments.

* The compiler will generate more efficient code for map
  comprehensions with constant values that don't depend on the
  generator. Example: `#{K => 42 || K <- List}`

## Compiler warnings

There are several new compiler warnings enabled by default. For each
such warning, there is an option to disable it.

* There will now be a warning when using the `catch` operator, which
  has been deprecated for a long time.  It is recommended to instead
  use `try`...`catch` but is also possible to disable the warning
  by using the `nowarn_deprecated_catch` option.

* There will now be a warning when exporting variables out of a
  subexpression.  For example: `file:open(File, AllOpts = [write,
  {encoding,utf8}])`. This warning can be disabled using the
  `nowarn_export_var_subexpr` compiler option.

* The compiler will now warn for uses of the `and` and `or`
  operators. This warning can be disabled using the
  `nowarn_obsolete_bool_op` compiler option.

* The compiler will now warn for matches such as `{a,B} = {X,Y}`,
  which is better written as `{a=X,B=Y}`. This warning can be disabled
  using the `nowarn_match_alias_pats` option.

For a long time, there has been a warning for using the obsolete guard
tests (such as `list(L)` instead of `is_list(L)`. In Erlang/OTP 30, the
old guards will be removed from the language.

## STDLIB

* There are new functions for randomly permutating a list: `rand:shuffle/1` and
  `rand:shuffle_s/2`.

## SSH

* The default key exchange algorithm is now mlkem768x25519-sha256, a hybrid
  quantum-resistant algorithm combining ML-KEM-768 with X25519. This provides
  protection against both classical and quantum computer attacks while
  maintaining backward compatibility through automatic fallback to other
  algorithms when peers don't support it.

For a full list and more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see the [README](https://erlang.org/download/otp_src_29.0.readme).
