---
id: 140
title: "OTP 23 Release"
lead: "The last release OTP 23"
tags: "release, OTP 23"
article_date: "2020-05-13T00:00:00Z"
created_at: "2020-05-13T12:38:13Z"
updated_at: "2020-05-13T12:38:13Z"
admin_user_id: 3
visible: "true"
article_type_id: 3
---
Erlang/OTP 23 is a new major release with new features, improvements as well as a few incompatibilities.

 ### Potential Incompatibilities
 * **SSL**: * Support for SSL 3.0 is completely removed.
* TLS 1.3 is added to the list of default supported versions.
* `erl_interface`: Removed the deprecated parts of `erl_interface` (`erl_interface.h` and essentially all C functions with prefix `erl_`).
* The deprecated `erlang:get_stacktrace/0` BIF now returns an empty list instead of a stacktrace. `erlang:get_stacktrace/0` is scheduled for removal in OTP 24.
 ### Improvements and new features
 * **ssh**:
 * OpenSSH 6.5 introduced a new file representation of keys called `openssh-key-v1`. This is now supported with the exception of handling encrypted keys.
* Algorithm configuration could now be done in a .config file. This is useful for example to enable an algorithm that is disabled by default without need to change the code.
* **SSL**:
 * Support for the middlebox compatibility mode makes the TLS 1.3 handshake look more like a TLS 1.2 handshake and increases the chance of successfully establishing TLS 1.3 connections through legacy middleboxes.
* Add support for key exchange with Edward curves and PSS-RSA padding in signature verification
* The possibility to run Erlang distribution without relying on EPMD has been extended. To achieve this a couple of new options to the inet distribution has been added.
 * `-dist_listen false` Setup the distribution channel, but do not listen for incoming connection.
* `-erl_epmd_port Port` Configure a default port that the built-in EPMD client should return.
* A first EXPERIMENTAL `socket` backend to
 `gen_tcp` and `inet` has been implemented. `gen_udp` and `gen_sctp` will follow.
 Putting `{inet_backend, socket}` as first option to `listen()` or `connect()` makes it easy to try this for existing code
* A new module `erpc` in kernel which implements an enhanced subset of the operations provided by the `rpc` module. Enhanced in the sense that it makes it possible to distinguish between returned value, raised exceptions and other errors. `erpc` also has better performance and scalability than the original `rpc` implementation. This by utilizing the newly introduced `spawn_request()` BIF. Also the `rpc` module benefits from these improvements by utilizing `erpc` when possible.
* Scalability and performance Improvements plus new functionality regarding distributed spawn operations.
* In binary matching, the size of the segment to be matched is now allowed to be a guard expression (EEP-52)
* When matching with maps the keys can now be guard expressions (EEP-52).
* ssh: support for TCP/IP port forwarding, a.k.a tunnelling a.k.a as tcp-forward/direct-tcp is implemented. In the OpenSSH client, this corresponds to the options -L and -R.
* Allow underscores in numeric literals to improve readability. Examples: `123_456_789`, `16#1234_ABCD`.
* New functions in the shell for displaying documentation for Erlang modules, functions and types. The
 functions are:
 * `h/1,2,3` -- Print the documentation for a `Module:Function/Arity`.
* `ht/1,2,3` -- Print the type documentation for a `Module:Type/Arity`.
 The embedded documentation is created as docchunks (EEP 48) when building the Erlang/OTP documentation.
* **kernel**: The module `pg` with a new implementation of distributed named process groups is introduced. The old module `pg2` is deprecated and scheduled for removal in OTP 24.
* Our tool chain for building the Windows packages is upgraded with new C++ compiler, Java compiler, OpenSSL libraries and wxWidgets versions. We are now using WSL (the Linux Subsystem for Windows when building) which makes it easier to handle the build environment.
 
For more details see
 [http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_23.0.readme](http://erlang.org/download/otp_src_23.0.readme)
 
Pre built versions for Windows can be fetched here:
 [http://erlang.org/download/otp_win32_23.0.exe](http://erlang.org/download/otp_win32_23.0.exe)
 [http://erlang.org/download/otp_win64_23.0.exe](http://erlang.org/download/otp_win64_23.0.exe)
 
Online documentation can be browsed here:
 [http://erlang.org/documentation/doc-11.0/doc](http://erlang.org/documentation/doc-11.0/doc)
 The Erlang/OTP source can also be found at GitHub on the official Erlang repository,
 [https://github.com/erlang/otp](https://github.com/erlang/otp)
 