# wx v2.6 - API Reference

## Modules

- [gl](gl.md): Erlang wrapper functions for OpenGL
- [glu](glu.md): Erlang wrapper functions for OpenGL
- [wx](wx.md): A port of [wxWidgets](http://www.wxwidgets.org/).
- [wxAcceleratorEntry](wxAcceleratorEntry.md): An object used by an application wishing to create an accelerator table (see `m:wxAcceleratorTable`).
- [wxAcceleratorTable](wxAcceleratorTable.md): An accelerator table allows the application to specify a table of keyboard shortcuts for
menu or button commands.
- [wxActivateEvent](wxActivateEvent.md): An activate event is sent when a window or application is being activated or deactivated.
- [wxArtProvider](wxArtProvider.md): `m:wxArtProvider` class is used to customize the look of wxWidgets application.
- [wxAuiDockArt](wxAuiDockArt.md): `m:wxAuiDockArt` is part of the wxAUI class framework.
- [wxAuiManager](wxAuiManager.md): `m:wxAuiManager` is the central class of the wxAUI class framework.
- [wxAuiManagerEvent](wxAuiManagerEvent.md): Event used to indicate various actions taken with `m:wxAuiManager`.
- [wxAuiNotebook](wxAuiNotebook.md): `m:wxAuiNotebook` is part of the wxAUI class framework, which represents a notebook
control, managing multiple windows with associated tabs.
- [wxAuiNotebookEvent](wxAuiNotebookEvent.md): This class is used by the events generated by `m:wxAuiNotebook`.
- [wxAuiPaneInfo](wxAuiPaneInfo.md): `m:wxAuiPaneInfo` is part of the wxAUI class framework.
- [wxAuiSimpleTabArt](wxAuiSimpleTabArt.md): Another standard tab art provider for `m:wxAuiNotebook`.
- [wxAuiTabArt](wxAuiTabArt.md): Tab art provider defines all the drawing functions used by `m:wxAuiNotebook`.
- [wxBitmap](wxBitmap.md): This class encapsulates the concept of a platform-dependent bitmap, either monochrome or
colour or colour with alpha channel support.
- [wxBitmapButton](wxBitmapButton.md): A bitmap button is a control that contains a bitmap.
- [wxBitmapDataObject](wxBitmapDataObject.md): `m:wxBitmapDataObject` is a specialization of `m:wxDataObject` for bitmap data.
- [wxBookCtrlBase](wxBookCtrlBase.md): A book control is a convenient way of displaying multiple pages of information, displayed
one page at a time.
- [wxBookCtrlEvent](wxBookCtrlEvent.md): This class represents the events generated by book controls (`m:wxNotebook`, `m:wxListbook`, `m:wxChoicebook`, `m:wxTreebook`, `m:wxAuiNotebook`).
- [wxBoxSizer](wxBoxSizer.md): The basic idea behind a box sizer is that windows will most often be laid out in rather
simple basic geometry, typically in a row or a column or several hierarchies of either.
- [wxBrush](wxBrush.md): A brush is a drawing tool for filling in areas.
- [wxBufferedDC](wxBufferedDC.md): This class provides a simple way to avoid flicker: when drawing on it, everything is in
fact first drawn on an in-memory buffer (a `m:wxBitmap`) and then copied to the screen,
using the associated `m:wxDC`, only once, when this object is destroyed.
- [wxBufferedPaintDC](wxBufferedPaintDC.md): This is a subclass of `m:wxBufferedDC` which can be used inside of an `EVT\_PAINT()`
event handler to achieve double-buffered drawing.
- [wxButton](wxButton.md): A button is a control that contains a text string, and is one of the most common elements
of a GUI.
- [wxCalendarCtrl](wxCalendarCtrl.md): The calendar control allows the user to pick a date.
- [wxCalendarDateAttr](wxCalendarDateAttr.md): `m:wxCalendarDateAttr` is a custom attributes for a calendar date.
- [wxCalendarEvent](wxCalendarEvent.md): The `m:wxCalendarEvent` class is used together with `m:wxCalendarCtrl`.
- [wxCaret](wxCaret.md): A caret is a blinking cursor showing the position where the typed text will appear.
- [wxCheckBox](wxCheckBox.md): A checkbox is a labelled box which by default is either on (checkmark is visible) or off
(no checkmark).
- [wxCheckListBox](wxCheckListBox.md): A `m:wxCheckListBox` is like a `m:wxListBox`, but allows items to be checked or
unchecked.
- [wxChildFocusEvent](wxChildFocusEvent.md): A child focus event is sent to a (parent-)window when one of its child windows gains
focus, so that the window could restore the focus back to its corresponding child if it
loses it now and regains later.
- [wxChoice](wxChoice.md): A choice item is used to select one of a list of strings.
- [wxChoicebook](wxChoicebook.md): `m:wxChoicebook` is a class similar to `m:wxNotebook`, but uses a `m:wxChoice` control to
show the labels instead of the tabs.
- [wxClientDC](wxClientDC.md): `m:wxClientDC` is primarily useful for obtaining information about the window from
outside EVT\_PAINT() handler.
- [wxClipboard](wxClipboard.md): A class for manipulating the clipboard.
- [wxClipboardTextEvent](wxClipboardTextEvent.md): This class represents the events generated by a control (typically a `m:wxTextCtrl` but
other windows can generate these events as well) when its content gets copied or cut to,
or pasted from the clipboard.
- [wxCloseEvent](wxCloseEvent.md): This event class contains information about window and session close events.
- [wxColourData](wxColourData.md): This class holds a variety of information related to colour dialogs.
- [wxColourDialog](wxColourDialog.md): This class represents the colour chooser dialog.
- [wxColourPickerCtrl](wxColourPickerCtrl.md): This control allows the user to select a colour.
- [wxColourPickerEvent](wxColourPickerEvent.md): This event class is used for the events generated by `m:wxColourPickerCtrl`.
- [wxComboBox](wxComboBox.md): A combobox is like a combination of an edit control and a listbox.
- [wxCommandEvent](wxCommandEvent.md): This event class contains information about command events, which originate from a
variety of simple controls.
- [wxContextMenuEvent](wxContextMenuEvent.md): This class is used for context menu events, sent to give the application a chance to show
a context (popup) menu for a `m:wxWindow`.
- [wxControl](wxControl.md): This is the base class for a control or "widget".
- [wxControlWithItems](wxControlWithItems.md): This is convenience class that derives from both `m:wxControl` and `wxItemContainer` (not
implemented in wx).
- [wxCursor](wxCursor.md): A cursor is a small bitmap usually used for denoting where the mouse pointer is, with a
picture that might indicate the interpretation of a mouse click.
- [wxDC](wxDC.md): A `m:wxDC` is a `"device context"` onto which graphics and text can be drawn.
- [wxDCOverlay](wxDCOverlay.md): Connects an overlay with a drawing DC.
- [wxDataObject](wxDataObject.md): A `m:wxDataObject` represents data that can be copied to or from the clipboard, or
dragged and dropped.
- [wxDateEvent](wxDateEvent.md): This event class holds information about a date change and is used together with `m:wxDatePickerCtrl`.
- [wxDatePickerCtrl](wxDatePickerCtrl.md): This control allows the user to select a date.
- [wxDialog](wxDialog.md): A dialog box is a window with a title bar and sometimes a system menu, which can be moved
around the screen.
- [wxDirDialog](wxDirDialog.md): This class represents the directory chooser dialog.
- [wxDirPickerCtrl](wxDirPickerCtrl.md): This control allows the user to select a directory.
- [wxDisplay](wxDisplay.md): Determines the sizes and locations of displays connected to the system.
- [wxDisplayChangedEvent](wxDisplayChangedEvent.md): A display changed event is sent to top-level windows when the display resolution has
changed.
- [wxDropFilesEvent](wxDropFilesEvent.md): This class is used for drop files events, that is, when files have been dropped onto the
window.
- [wxEraseEvent](wxEraseEvent.md): An erase event is sent when a window's background needs to be repainted.
- [wxEvent](wxEvent.md): An event is a structure holding information about an event passed to a callback or member
function.
- [wxEvtHandler](wxEvtHandler.md): The Event handler
- [wxFileDataObject](wxFileDataObject.md): `m:wxFileDataObject` is a specialization of `m:wxDataObject` for file names.
- [wxFileDialog](wxFileDialog.md): This class represents the file chooser dialog.
- [wxFileDirPickerEvent](wxFileDirPickerEvent.md): This event class is used for the events generated by `m:wxFilePickerCtrl` and by `m:wxDirPickerCtrl`.
- [wxFilePickerCtrl](wxFilePickerCtrl.md): This control allows the user to select a file.
- [wxFindReplaceData](wxFindReplaceData.md): `m:wxFindReplaceData` holds the data for `m:wxFindReplaceDialog`.
- [wxFindReplaceDialog](wxFindReplaceDialog.md): `m:wxFindReplaceDialog` is a standard modeless dialog which is used to allow the user to
search for some text (and possibly replace it with something else).
- [wxFlexGridSizer](wxFlexGridSizer.md): A flex grid sizer is a sizer which lays out its children in a two-dimensional table with
all table fields in one row having the same height and all fields in one column having the
same width, but all rows or all columns are not necessarily the same height or width as in
the `m:wxGridSizer`.
- [wxFocusEvent](wxFocusEvent.md): A focus event is sent when a window's focus changes.
- [wxFont](wxFont.md): A font is an object which determines the appearance of text.
- [wxFontData](wxFontData.md): This class holds a variety of information related to font dialogs.
- [wxFontDialog](wxFontDialog.md): This class represents the font chooser dialog.
- [wxFontPickerCtrl](wxFontPickerCtrl.md): This control allows the user to select a font.
- [wxFontPickerEvent](wxFontPickerEvent.md): This event class is used for the events generated by `m:wxFontPickerCtrl`.
- [wxFrame](wxFrame.md): A frame is a window whose size and position can (usually) be changed by the user.
- [wxGBSizerItem](wxGBSizerItem.md): The `m:wxGBSizerItem` class is used by the `m:wxGridBagSizer` for tracking the items in
the sizer.
- [wxGCDC](wxGCDC.md): `m:wxGCDC` is a device context that draws on a `m:wxGraphicsContext`.
- [wxGLCanvas](wxGLCanvas.md): `m:wxGLCanvas` is a class for displaying OpenGL graphics.
- [wxGLContext](wxGLContext.md): An instance of a `m:wxGLContext` represents the state of an OpenGL state machine and the
connection between OpenGL and the system.
- [wxGauge](wxGauge.md): A gauge is a horizontal or vertical bar which shows a quantity (often time).
- [wxGenericDirCtrl](wxGenericDirCtrl.md): This control can be used to place a directory listing (with optional files) on an
arbitrary window.
- [wxGraphicsBrush](wxGraphicsBrush.md): A `m:wxGraphicsBrush` is a native representation of a brush.
- [wxGraphicsContext](wxGraphicsContext.md): A `m:wxGraphicsContext` instance is the object that is drawn upon.
- [wxGraphicsFont](wxGraphicsFont.md): A `m:wxGraphicsFont` is a native representation of a font.
- [wxGraphicsGradientStops](wxGraphicsGradientStops.md): Represents a collection of wxGraphicGradientStop values for use with
CreateLinearGradientBrush and CreateRadialGradientBrush.
- [wxGraphicsMatrix](wxGraphicsMatrix.md): A `m:wxGraphicsMatrix` is a native representation of an affine matrix.
- [wxGraphicsObject](wxGraphicsObject.md): This class is the superclass of native graphics objects like pens etc.
- [wxGraphicsPath](wxGraphicsPath.md): A `m:wxGraphicsPath` is a native representation of a geometric path.
- [wxGraphicsPen](wxGraphicsPen.md): A `m:wxGraphicsPen` is a native representation of a pen.
- [wxGraphicsRenderer](wxGraphicsRenderer.md): A `m:wxGraphicsRenderer` is the instance corresponding to the rendering engine used.
- [wxGrid](wxGrid.md): `m:wxGrid` and its related classes are used for displaying and editing tabular data.
- [wxGridBagSizer](wxGridBagSizer.md): A `m:wxSizer` that can lay out items in a virtual grid like a `m:wxFlexGridSizer` but in
this case explicit positioning of the items is allowed using `wxGBPosition` (not
implemented in wx), and items can optionally span more than one row and/or column using `wxGBSpan`
(not implemented in wx).
- [wxGridCellAttr](wxGridCellAttr.md): This class can be used to alter the cells' appearance in the grid by changing their
attributes from the defaults.
- [wxGridCellBoolEditor](wxGridCellBoolEditor.md): Grid cell editor for boolean data.
- [wxGridCellBoolRenderer](wxGridCellBoolRenderer.md): This class may be used to format boolean data in a cell.
- [wxGridCellChoiceEditor](wxGridCellChoiceEditor.md): Grid cell editor for string data providing the user a choice from a list of strings.
- [wxGridCellEditor](wxGridCellEditor.md): This class is responsible for providing and manipulating the in-place edit controls for
the grid.
- [wxGridCellFloatEditor](wxGridCellFloatEditor.md): The editor for floating point numbers data.
- [wxGridCellFloatRenderer](wxGridCellFloatRenderer.md): This class may be used to format floating point data in a cell.
- [wxGridCellNumberEditor](wxGridCellNumberEditor.md): Grid cell editor for numeric integer data.
- [wxGridCellNumberRenderer](wxGridCellNumberRenderer.md): This class may be used to format integer data in a cell.
- [wxGridCellRenderer](wxGridCellRenderer.md): This class is responsible for actually drawing the cell in the grid.
- [wxGridCellStringRenderer](wxGridCellStringRenderer.md): This class may be used to format string data in a cell; it is the default for string
cells.
- [wxGridCellTextEditor](wxGridCellTextEditor.md): Grid cell editor for string/text data.
- [wxGridEvent](wxGridEvent.md): This event class contains information about various grid events.
- [wxGridSizer](wxGridSizer.md): A grid sizer is a sizer which lays out its children in a two-dimensional table with all
table fields having the same size, i.e.
- [wxHelpEvent](wxHelpEvent.md): A help event is sent when the user has requested context-sensitive help.
- [wxHtmlEasyPrinting](wxHtmlEasyPrinting.md): This class provides very simple interface to printing architecture.
- [wxHtmlLinkEvent](wxHtmlLinkEvent.md): This event class is used for the events generated by `m:wxHtmlWindow`.
- [wxHtmlWindow](wxHtmlWindow.md): `m:wxHtmlWindow` is probably the only class you will directly use unless you want to do
something special (like adding new tag handlers or MIME filters).
- [wxIcon](wxIcon.md): An icon is a small rectangular bitmap usually used for denoting a minimized application.
- [wxIconBundle](wxIconBundle.md): This class contains multiple copies of an icon in different sizes.
- [wxIconizeEvent](wxIconizeEvent.md): An event being sent when the frame is iconized (minimized) or restored.
- [wxIdleEvent](wxIdleEvent.md): This class is used for idle events, which are generated when the system becomes idle.
- [wxImage](wxImage.md): This class encapsulates a platform-independent image.
- [wxImageList](wxImageList.md): A `m:wxImageList` contains a list of images, which are stored in an unspecified form.
- [wxInitDialogEvent](wxInitDialogEvent.md): A `m:wxInitDialogEvent` is sent as a dialog or panel is being initialised.
- [wxJoystickEvent](wxJoystickEvent.md): This event class contains information about joystick events, particularly events received
by windows.
- [wxKeyEvent](wxKeyEvent.md): This event class contains information about key press and release events.
- [wxLayoutAlgorithm](wxLayoutAlgorithm.md): `m:wxLayoutAlgorithm` implements layout of subwindows in MDI or SDI frames.
- [wxListBox](wxListBox.md): A listbox is used to select one or more of a list of strings.
- [wxListCtrl](wxListCtrl.md): A list control presents lists in a number of formats: list view, report view, icon view
and small icon view.
- [wxListEvent](wxListEvent.md): A list event holds information about events associated with `m:wxListCtrl` objects.
- [wxListItem](wxListItem.md): This class stores information about a `m:wxListCtrl` item or column.
- [wxListItemAttr](wxListItemAttr.md): Functions for wxListItemAttr class
- [wxListView](wxListView.md): This class currently simply presents a simpler to use interface for the `m:wxListCtrl` --
it can be thought of as a `façade` for that complicated class.
- [wxListbook](wxListbook.md): `m:wxListbook` is a class similar to `m:wxNotebook` but which uses a `m:wxListCtrl` to
show the labels instead of the tabs.
- [wxLocale](wxLocale.md): `m:wxLocale` class encapsulates all language-dependent settings and is a generalization
of the C locale concept.
- [wxLogNull](wxLogNull.md): This class allows you to temporarily suspend logging.
- [wxMDIChildFrame](wxMDIChildFrame.md): An MDI child frame is a frame that can only exist inside a `m:wxMDIClientWindow`, which
is itself a child of `m:wxMDIParentFrame`.
- [wxMDIClientWindow](wxMDIClientWindow.md): An MDI client window is a child of `m:wxMDIParentFrame`, and manages zero or more `m:wxMDIChildFrame`
objects.
- [wxMDIParentFrame](wxMDIParentFrame.md): An MDI (Multiple Document Interface) parent frame is a window which can contain MDI child
frames in its client area which emulates the full desktop.
- [wxMask](wxMask.md): This class encapsulates a monochrome mask bitmap, where the masked area is black and the
unmasked area is white.
- [wxMaximizeEvent](wxMaximizeEvent.md): An event being sent when a top level window is maximized.
- [wxMemoryDC](wxMemoryDC.md): A memory device context provides a means to draw graphics onto a bitmap.
- [wxMenu](wxMenu.md): A menu is a popup (or pull down) list of items, one of which may be selected before the
menu goes away (clicking elsewhere dismisses the menu).
- [wxMenuBar](wxMenuBar.md): A menu bar is a series of menus accessible from the top of a frame.
- [wxMenuEvent](wxMenuEvent.md): This class is used for a variety of menu-related events.
- [wxMenuItem](wxMenuItem.md): A menu item represents an item in a menu.
- [wxMessageDialog](wxMessageDialog.md): This class represents a dialog that shows a single or multi-line message, with a choice
of OK, Yes, No and Cancel buttons.
- [wxMiniFrame](wxMiniFrame.md): A miniframe is a frame with a small title bar.
- [wxMirrorDC](wxMirrorDC.md): `m:wxMirrorDC` is a simple wrapper class which is always associated with a real `m:wxDC`
object and either forwards all of its operations to it without changes (no mirroring takes
place) or exchanges `x` and `y` coordinates which makes it possible to reuse the same code
to draw a figure and its mirror -- i.e.
- [wxMouseCaptureChangedEvent](wxMouseCaptureChangedEvent.md): An mouse capture changed event is sent to a window that loses its mouse capture.
- [wxMouseCaptureLostEvent](wxMouseCaptureLostEvent.md): A mouse capture lost event is sent to a window that had obtained mouse capture, which was
subsequently lost due to an "external" event (for example, when a dialog box is shown or
if another application captures the mouse).
- [wxMouseEvent](wxMouseEvent.md): This event class contains information about the events generated by the mouse: they
include mouse buttons press and release events and mouse move events.
- [wxMoveEvent](wxMoveEvent.md): A move event holds information about window position change.
- [wxMultiChoiceDialog](wxMultiChoiceDialog.md): This class represents a dialog that shows a list of strings, and allows the user to
select one or more.
- [wxNavigationKeyEvent](wxNavigationKeyEvent.md): This event class contains information about navigation events, generated by navigation
keys such as tab and page down.
- [wxNotebook](wxNotebook.md): This class represents a notebook control, which manages multiple windows with associated
tabs.
- [wxNotificationMessage](wxNotificationMessage.md): This class allows showing the user a message non intrusively.
- [wxNotifyEvent](wxNotifyEvent.md): This class is not used by the event handlers by itself, but is a base class for other
event classes (such as `m:wxBookCtrlEvent`).
- [wxOverlay](wxOverlay.md): Creates an overlay over an existing window, allowing for manipulations like
rubberbanding, etc.
- [wxPageSetupDialog](wxPageSetupDialog.md): This class represents the page setup common dialog.
- [wxPageSetupDialogData](wxPageSetupDialogData.md): This class holds a variety of information related to `m:wxPageSetupDialog`.
- [wxPaintDC](wxPaintDC.md): A `m:wxPaintDC` must be constructed if an application wishes to paint on the client area
of a window from within an EVT\_PAINT() event handler.
- [wxPaintEvent](wxPaintEvent.md): A paint event is sent when a window's contents needs to be repainted.
- [wxPalette](wxPalette.md): A palette is a table that maps pixel values to RGB colours.
- [wxPaletteChangedEvent](wxPaletteChangedEvent.md): Functions for wxPaletteChangedEvent class
- [wxPanel](wxPanel.md): A panel is a window on which controls are placed.
- [wxPasswordEntryDialog](wxPasswordEntryDialog.md): This class represents a dialog that requests a one-line password string from the user.
- [wxPen](wxPen.md): A pen is a drawing tool for drawing outlines.
- [wxPickerBase](wxPickerBase.md): Base abstract class for all pickers which support an auxiliary text control.
- [wxPopupTransientWindow](wxPopupTransientWindow.md): A `m:wxPopupWindow` which disappears automatically when the user clicks mouse outside it
or if it loses focus in any other way.
- [wxPopupWindow](wxPopupWindow.md): A special kind of top level window used for popup menus, combobox popups and such.
- [wxPostScriptDC](wxPostScriptDC.md): This defines the wxWidgets Encapsulated PostScript device context, which can write
PostScript files on any platform.
- [wxPreviewCanvas](wxPreviewCanvas.md): A preview canvas is the default canvas used by the print preview system to display the
preview.
- [wxPreviewControlBar](wxPreviewControlBar.md): This is the default implementation of the preview control bar, a panel with buttons and a
zoom control.
- [wxPreviewFrame](wxPreviewFrame.md): This class provides the default method of managing the print preview interface.
- [wxPrintData](wxPrintData.md): This class holds a variety of information related to printers and printer device
contexts.
- [wxPrintDialog](wxPrintDialog.md): This class represents the print and print setup common dialogs.
- [wxPrintDialogData](wxPrintDialogData.md): This class holds information related to the visual characteristics of `m:wxPrintDialog`.
- [wxPrintPreview](wxPrintPreview.md): Objects of this class manage the print preview process.
- [wxPrinter](wxPrinter.md): This class represents the Windows or PostScript printer, and is the vehicle through which
printing may be launched by an application.
- [wxPrintout](wxPrintout.md): This class encapsulates the functionality of printing out an application document.
- [wxProgressDialog](wxProgressDialog.md): If supported by the platform this class will provide the platform's native progress
dialog, else it will simply be the `wxGenericProgressDialog` (not implemented in wx).
- [wxQueryNewPaletteEvent](wxQueryNewPaletteEvent.md): Functions for wxQueryNewPaletteEvent class
- [wxRadioBox](wxRadioBox.md): A radio box item is used to select one of number of mutually exclusive choices.
- [wxRadioButton](wxRadioButton.md): A radio button item is a button which usually denotes one of several mutually exclusive
options.
- [wxRegion](wxRegion.md): A `m:wxRegion` represents a simple or complex region on a device context or window.
- [wxSashEvent](wxSashEvent.md): A sash event is sent when the sash of a `m:wxSashWindow` has been dragged by the user.
- [wxSashLayoutWindow](wxSashLayoutWindow.md): `m:wxSashLayoutWindow` responds to OnCalculateLayout events generated by `m:wxLayoutAlgorithm`.
- [wxSashWindow](wxSashWindow.md): `m:wxSashWindow` allows any of its edges to have a sash which can be dragged to resize
the window.
- [wxScreenDC](wxScreenDC.md): A `m:wxScreenDC` can be used to paint on the screen.
- [wxScrollBar](wxScrollBar.md): A `m:wxScrollBar` is a control that represents a horizontal or vertical scrollbar.
- [wxScrollEvent](wxScrollEvent.md): A scroll event holds information about events sent from stand-alone scrollbars (see `m:wxScrollBar`)
and sliders (see `m:wxSlider`).
- [wxScrollWinEvent](wxScrollWinEvent.md): A scroll event holds information about events sent from scrolling windows.
- [wxScrolledWindow](wxScrolledWindow.md): The `wxScrolled` (not implemented in wx) class manages scrolling for its client area,
transforming the coordinates according to the scrollbar positions, and setting the scroll
positions, thumb sizes and ranges according to the area in view.
- [wxSetCursorEvent](wxSetCursorEvent.md): A `m:wxSetCursorEvent` is generated from `m:wxWindow` when the mouse cursor is about to
be set as a result of mouse motion.
- [wxShowEvent](wxShowEvent.md): An event being sent when the window is shown or hidden.
- [wxSingleChoiceDialog](wxSingleChoiceDialog.md): This class represents a dialog that shows a list of strings, and allows the user to
select one.
- [wxSizeEvent](wxSizeEvent.md): A size event holds information about size change events of `m:wxWindow`.
- [wxSizer](wxSizer.md): `m:wxSizer` is the abstract base class used for laying out subwindows in a window.
- [wxSizerFlags](wxSizerFlags.md): Container for sizer items flags providing readable names for them.
- [wxSizerItem](wxSizerItem.md): The `m:wxSizerItem` class is used to track the position, size and other attributes of
each item managed by a `m:wxSizer`.
- [wxSlider](wxSlider.md): A slider is a control with a handle which can be pulled back and forth to change the
value.
- [wxSpinButton](wxSpinButton.md): A `m:wxSpinButton` has two small up and down (or left and right) arrow buttons.
- [wxSpinCtrl](wxSpinCtrl.md): `m:wxSpinCtrl` combines `m:wxTextCtrl` and `m:wxSpinButton` in one control.
- [wxSpinEvent](wxSpinEvent.md): This event class is used for the events generated by `m:wxSpinButton` and `m:wxSpinCtrl`.
- [wxSplashScreen](wxSplashScreen.md): `m:wxSplashScreen` shows a window with a thin border, displaying a bitmap describing your
application.
- [wxSplitterEvent](wxSplitterEvent.md): This class represents the events generated by a splitter control.
- [wxSplitterWindow](wxSplitterWindow.md): This class manages up to two subwindows.
- [wxStaticBitmap](wxStaticBitmap.md): A static bitmap control displays a bitmap.
- [wxStaticBox](wxStaticBox.md): A static box is a rectangle drawn around other windows to denote a logical grouping of
items.
- [wxStaticBoxSizer](wxStaticBoxSizer.md): `m:wxStaticBoxSizer` is a sizer derived from `m:wxBoxSizer` but adds a static box around
the sizer.
- [wxStaticLine](wxStaticLine.md): A static line is just a line which may be used in a dialog to separate the groups of
controls.
- [wxStaticText](wxStaticText.md): A static text control displays one or more lines of read-only text.
- [wxStatusBar](wxStatusBar.md): A status bar is a narrow window that can be placed along the bottom of a frame to give
small amounts of status information.
- [wxStdDialogButtonSizer](wxStdDialogButtonSizer.md): This class creates button layouts which conform to the standard button spacing and
ordering defined by the platform or toolkit's user interface guidelines (if such things
exist).
- [wxStyledTextCtrl](wxStyledTextCtrl.md): A wxWidgets implementation of the Scintilla source code editing component.
- [wxStyledTextEvent](wxStyledTextEvent.md): The type of events sent from `m:wxStyledTextCtrl`.
- [wxSysColourChangedEvent](wxSysColourChangedEvent.md): This class is used for system colour change events, which are generated when the user
changes the colour settings using the control panel.
- [wxSystemOptions](wxSystemOptions.md): `m:wxSystemOptions` stores option/value pairs that wxWidgets itself or applications can
use to alter behaviour at run-time.
- [wxSystemSettings](wxSystemSettings.md): `m:wxSystemSettings` allows the application to ask for details about the system.
- [wxTaskBarIcon](wxTaskBarIcon.md): This class represents a taskbar icon.
- [wxTaskBarIconEvent](wxTaskBarIconEvent.md): The event class used by `m:wxTaskBarIcon`.
- [wxTextAttr](wxTextAttr.md): `m:wxTextAttr` represents the character and paragraph attributes, or style, for a range
of text in a `m:wxTextCtrl` or `wxRichTextCtrl` (not implemented in wx).
- [wxTextCtrl](wxTextCtrl.md): A text control allows text to be displayed and edited.
- [wxTextDataObject](wxTextDataObject.md): `m:wxTextDataObject` is a specialization of `wxDataObjectSimple` (not implemented in wx)
for text data.
- [wxTextEntryDialog](wxTextEntryDialog.md): This class represents a dialog that requests a one-line text string from the user.
- [wxToggleButton](wxToggleButton.md): `m:wxToggleButton` is a button that stays pressed when clicked by the user.
- [wxToolBar](wxToolBar.md): A toolbar is a bar of buttons and/or other controls usually placed below the menu bar in
a `m:wxFrame`.
- [wxToolTip](wxToolTip.md): This class holds information about a tooltip associated with a window (see `wxWindow:setToolTip/2`).
- [wxToolbook](wxToolbook.md): `m:wxToolbook` is a class similar to `m:wxNotebook` but which uses a `m:wxToolBar` to
show the labels instead of the tabs.
- [wxTopLevelWindow](wxTopLevelWindow.md): `m:wxTopLevelWindow` is a common base class for `m:wxDialog` and `m:wxFrame`.
- [wxTreeCtrl](wxTreeCtrl.md): A tree control presents information as a hierarchy, with items that may be expanded to
show further items.
- [wxTreeEvent](wxTreeEvent.md): A tree event holds information about events associated with `m:wxTreeCtrl` objects.
- [wxTreebook](wxTreebook.md): This class is an extension of the `m:wxNotebook` class that allows a tree structured set
of pages to be shown in a control.
- [wxUpdateUIEvent](wxUpdateUIEvent.md): This class is used for pseudo-events which are called by wxWidgets to give an application
the chance to update various user interface elements.
- [wxWebView](wxWebView.md): This control may be used to render web (HTML / CSS / javascript) documents.
- [wxWebViewEvent](wxWebViewEvent.md): A navigation event holds information about events associated with `m:wxWebView` objects.
- [wxWindow](wxWindow.md): `m:wxWindow` is the base class for all windows and represents any visible object on
screen.
- [wxWindowCreateEvent](wxWindowCreateEvent.md): This event is sent just after the actual window associated with a `m:wxWindow` object has
been created.
- [wxWindowDC](wxWindowDC.md): A `m:wxWindowDC` must be constructed if an application wishes to paint on the whole area
of a window (client and decorations).
- [wxWindowDestroyEvent](wxWindowDestroyEvent.md): This event is sent as early as possible during the window destruction process.
- [wxXmlResource](wxXmlResource.md): This is the main class for interacting with the XML-based resource system.
- [wx_misc](wx_misc.md): Miscellaneous functions.
- [wx_object](wx_object.md): wx_object - Generic wx object behaviour

