---
layout: release
release: 24
blog: _posts/2021-5-12-My-OTP-24-Highlights.md
---
## Highlights

### compiler
- The compiler will now inline funs that are used only once immediately after their definition.
- Compiler warnings and errors now include column numbers in addition to line numbers.
- Variables bound between the keywords `'try'` and `'of'` can now be used in the clauses following the `'of'` keyword
  (that is, in the success case when no exception was raised).
- Generators in list and binary comprehensions will now
  raise a `{bad_generator,Generator}` exception if the
  generator has an incorrect type
  Similarly, when a
  filter does not evaluate to a boolean, a
  `{bad_filter,Filter}` exception will be raised.
- Warnings for expressions whose result was ignored that could be suppressed by
  using the anonymous variable `'_'` can now be suppressed with a variable beginning with `'_'`.
- Selective receive optimization will now be applied much
  more often.
  The new `recv_opt_info` compile flag can be used to print
  diagnostics relating to this optimization.
  You can read more about the selective receive
  optimization in the Efficiency Guide.


### erts, kernel, stdlib
- hex encoding and decoding functions added in the binary module
- The BeamAsm JIT-compiler has been added to Erlang/OTP and will give a significant performance boost for many applications.
  The JIT-compiler is enabled by default on most x86 64-bit platforms that have a C++ compiler that can compile C++17. 
  To verify that a JIT enabled emulator is running you can use `erlang:system_info(emu_flavor)`.

- A compatibility adaptor for `gen_tcp` to use the new socket API has been implemented (`gen_tcp_socket`).
- Extended error information for failing BIF calls as proposed in EEP 54 has been implemented.
- Process aliases as outlined by EEP 53 has been introduced.
- Implementation of EEP 56 in supervisor. It adds the concept of significant children as well as the `auto_shutdown` supervisor flag. See the supervisor manual page for more information.

### ftp
- Add support for FTPES (explicit FTP over TLS).

### ssl
- Make TLS handshakes in Erlang distribution concurrent.
- TLS connections now support EdDSA certificates.

### wx
- The application has been completely rewritten in order
  to use wxWidgets version 3 as its base.
- Added support for wxWebView.

### edoc
- EDoc is now capable of emitting EEP-48 doc chunks. This means that, with some
  configuration,  community projects can now provide documentation for shell_docs
  the same way that OTP libraries did since OTP 23.0.

For more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see
- https://www.erlang.org/download/OTP-24.0.README

