---
layout: release
release: 25
blog:
---
## Highlights

### erts, stdlib
- Users can now configure ETS tables with the
  `{write_concurrency, auto}` option. This option forces
  tables to automatically change the number of locks that
  are used at run-time depending on how much concurrency
  is detected. The `{decentralized_counters, true}` option
  is enabled by default when `{write_concurrency, auto}` is
  active.

  Benchmark results comparing this option with the other
  ETS optimization options are available here:
  [benchmarks](http://winsh.me/bench/ets_config_locks/ets_bench_result_lock_config.html).

- To enable more optimizations, BEAM files compiled with
  OTP 21 and earlier cannot be loaded in OTP 25.

- The signal queue of a process with
  the process flag `message_queue_data=off_heap` has been optimized to
  allow parallel reception of signals from multiple processes.
  This can improve performance when many processes are sending in parallel to
  one process. [See benchmark](http://winsh.me/bench/erlang_sig_q/sigq_bench_result.html).

  Information about how to enable the
  `message_queue_data=off_heap` setting can be found in the
  documentation of the function `erlang:process_flag/2`.
    
- The JIT now does type-based optimizations based on type
  information in the BEAM files.
- The JIT now works for 64-bit ARM processors.
- Improved the JIT's support for external tools like `perf`
               and `gdb`, allowing them to show line numbers and even
               the original Erlang source code when that can be found.

- The `format_status/2` callback for `gen_server`, `gen_statem`
               and `gen_event` has been deprecated in favor of the new
               `format_status/1` callback.

  The new callback adds the possibility to limit and
  change many more things than the just the state, such
  as the last received message, the reason for
  terminating and more events specific to each type of
  behavior. See the respective modules documentation for
  more details.

- The timer module has been modernized and made more
  efficient, which makes the timer server less
  susceptible to being overloaded. The timer:sleep/1
  function now accepts an arbitrarily large integer.

- Improved and more detailed error messages when binary construction with the
  binary syntax fails.
  This applies both for error messages in the shell and for
  `erl_error:format_exception/3,4`.
  

- The `maybe ... end` construction as proposed in `EEP-49`
  has been implemented. It can simplify complex code
  where otherwise deeply nested cases would have to be
  used.

  To enable `maybe`, give the option `{enable,maybe_expr}` to
  the compiler. (The exact option to use will change in
  the next release candidate.) That option will not work
  if given inside the module being compiled. We hope to
  lift that restriction in the next release candidate.

- A new [DEVELOPMENT HOWTO guide](https://github.com/erlang/otp/blob/master/HOWTO/DEVELOPMENT.md) has been added that
  describes how to build and test Erlang/OTP when fixing
  bugs or developing new functionality.

  The makefile system has been extended to make it easier
  to run tests at different granulates directly from the
  command line. This new functionality is described in
  the development howto.

  Using the extended makefile system, testing has been
  added to the Github actions run for each opened PR so
  that more bugs are caught earlier when bug fixes and
  new features are proposed.

- The new module `peer` supersedes the `slave` module. The
  `slave` module is now deprecated and will be removed in OTP 27.

- When a record matching or record update fails, a
  `{badrecord, ExpectedRecordTag}` exception used to be
  raised. In this release, the exception has been changed
  to `{badrecord, ActualValue}`, where `ActualValue` is the
  value that was found instead of the expected record.

- `global` will by default prevent
  overlapping partitions due to network issues (**Potential Incompatibility**). This is done by
  actively disconnecting from nodes that reports that
  they have lost connections to other nodes. This will
  cause fully connected partitions to form instead of
  leaving the network in a state with overlapping
  partitions.

  It is possible to turn off the new behavior by setting the
  the `kernel` configuration parameter `prevent_overlapping_partitions` to `false`.
  Doing this will retain the same behavior as in OTP 24 and earlier.

- Add compile attribute -nifs() to empower compiler and loader with
  information about which functions may be overridden as NIFs by `erlang:load_nif/2`.

- Add `crypto:hash_equals/2` which is a constant time comparision of hashvalues.

### Dialyzer
- Optimize operations in the `erl_types` module. Parallelize the Dialyzer pass remote.
- Added the `missing_return and extra_return options to
  raise warnings when specifications differ from inferred
  types. These are similar to, but not quite as verbose
  as overspecs and underspecs.


- Dialyzer now better understands the types for min/2,
  `max/2`, and `erlang:raise/3`. Because of that, Dialyzer
  can potentially generate new warnings. In particular,
  functions that use `erlang:raise/3` could now need a spec
  with a `no_return()` return type to avoid an unwanted
  warning.






               Add compile attribute -nifs() to empower compiler and
               loader with information about which functions may be
               overridden as NIFs by erlang:load_nif/2.



- The Erlang installation directory is now relocatable on
  the file system given that the paths in the
  installation's RELEASES file are paths that are
  relative to the installations root directory. The
  `release_handler:create_RELEASES/4 function can
  generate a RELEASES file with relative paths if its
  RootDir parameter is set to the empty string.




- Make byte_size/1 and binary_part/2/3 callable from
  match specs (in ETS and tracing).



- A new option called short has been added to the
  functions `erlang:float_to_list` and
  `erlang:float_to_binary/`. This option creates the
  shortest correctly rounded string representation of the
  given float that can be converted back to the same
  float again.




  OTP-17685    Application(s): compiler, erts

               Improved the JIT's support for external tools like perf
               and gdb, allowing them to show line numbers and even
               the original Erlang source code when that can be found.

               To aid them in finding the source code, the
               absolute_path compiler option has been added to embed
               the absolute file path of a module.






  OTP-17753    Application(s): erts
               Related Id(s): GH-5297, PR-5305

               Add new function caller_line to for trace match
               specifications used by erlang:trace_pattern/3.

               This new option puts the line number of the caller into
               the trace message sent to the trace receiver.


  OTP-17762    Application(s): erts
               Related Id(s): GH-5204, PR-5219

               A new erl command line argument +ssrct has been
               introduced which will cause the runtime system to skip
               reading CPU topology information. This reduce startup
               time especially when the CPU topology is large. Reading
               of CPU topology information is now also skipped if a
               user defined CPU topology is set using the +sct command
               line argument.






The DNS resolver implementation has been rewritten to
validate replies more thoroughly, and a bit optimized
to create less garbage.






  OTP-17617    Application(s): kernel
               Related Id(s): PR-5069

               A net_ticker_spawn_options kernel configuration
               parameter with which one can set spawn options for the
               distribution channel ticker processes has been
               introduced.



- IP address validation functions `is_ipv4_address/1`,
`is_ipv6_address/1` and `is_ip_address/1` have been added
to the module `inet` in Kernel.



  OTP-17909    Application(s): runtime_tools
               Related Id(s): ERIERL-760

               dbg:stop/0 now behaves like dbg:stop_clear/0, clearing
               all global trace patterns for all functions.


- Add lists:enumerate/[1,2].



- Introduction of `quote/1` and `unquote/1` functions in
  the `uri_string` module - a replacement for the deprecated functions `http_uri:encode`
  and `http_uri:decode`.





For more details about new features and potential incompatibilities see
- https://erlang.org/download/OTP-25.0.README


