---
layout: release
release: 28
blog: _posts/2025-05-20-highlights-otp-28.md
---

## Documentation

* SPDX 2.2 Source Software-Bill-Of-Materials for Erlang/OTP compliant with NTIA minimum requirements.

## New language features

* New strict generators have been added for comprehensions according to [EEP 70](/eeps/eep-0070).
* Comprehensions have been extended with zip generators according to [EEP 73](/eeps/eep-0073).
* For various error types, the compiler now tries to suggest potential fixes by adding "did you mean ...?" at the end of error messages.
* [EEP-69: Nominal Types] has been implemented. As a side effect, nominal types can encode opaque types. We changed all opaque-handling logic and improved opaque warnings in Dialyzer.
* It is now possible to use any base for floating point numbers as described in [EEP 75: Based Floating Point Literals](/eeps/eep-0073).

## Compiler and JIT improvements

* The compiler’s alias analysis pass is now both faster and less conservative, allowing optimizations of records and binary construction to be applied in more cases.

## ERTS / STDLIB

* Module [`re`] has been updated to use PCRE2, which is mostly backward compatible with PCRE.
* Functionality making it possible for processes to enable reception of priority messages has been introduced in accordance with [EEP 76](/eeps/0076).
* Added erlang:hibernate/0, which hibernates a process without discarding the stack.
* An **experimental** API for a native debugger has been added.
* The `erl -noshell` mode has been updated to have two sub modes called `raw` and `cooked`, where `cooked` is the old default behaviour and `raw` can be used to bypass the line-editing support of the native terminal.

## Public Key / SSL

* The ancient ASN.1 modules used in `public_key` has been replaced with more modern versions
* The SSL application has been heavily optimized to allow higher throughput and lower latency.
